Stateful Diskless is an approach where each node has dedicated filesystem space, even if it does not have any direct-attached storage. nfs and iscsi root are examples of this. xCAT currently provides assistance with iSCSI oriented setups. 

Stateful diskless is pretty similar to standard installs. The chief benefit being consolodating storage requirements to a smaller set of servers. This reduces the effort required to establish redundancy and backup if desired while enabling potentially more efficient use of disk space (i.e. if only 2 GB of storage per node root fs are needed and 36GB are the smallest drives). A significant drawback is that some consideration must be given to how redundant the storage must be, since an outage means several nodes will cease working instead of one. 

Currently, xCAT frontends RHEL5.1 and higher tgtadm with 'setupiscsidev'. This has an xCAT server set up simple file-based iSCSI targets for systems to make use of. For SLES, it is currently recommended to use YaST to configure the equivalent. Another option is to make use of an iSCSI storage controller such as an IBM DS3300 or other similar product. Use of setupiscsidev also manipulates the iscsi parameters for a noderange. 

For the perspective of node installs, iscsi.server at a minimum should be set for RHEL, and iscsi.target must be specified as well for SLES. At that point, rinstall -p iscsi &lt;noderange&gt; should kick off a standard install that will be iSCSI hosted. This does *not* require iSCSI hardware or firmware support to be available/configured, xCAT will help the nodes boot without that support in place through dhcp/bootp and tftp. 
